FishHook: A Visual Analytics System for Tracing Suspicious Entities in the
Fisheries Domain Using Knowledge Graphs
Jingfu Wu*
Southern University of
Science and T echnology
Diyun Lu†
Southern University of
Science and T echnology
Lei Chen‡
Southern University of
Science and T echnology
Ningyi Peng§
Southern University of
Science and T echnology
Fan Y ang¶
Southern University of
Science and T echnology
Xinyu T ang||
Southern University of
Science and T echnology
Y uxin Ma**
Southern University of
Science and T echnology
Figure 1: System overview. (A) Ego Net. (B) Unity Net. (C) Hierarchy T ree. (D) Parallel Coordinates.
ABSTRACT
Undertaking the visual exploration of a large knowledge graph in the
domain of illegal ﬁshery activities, FishHook offers an interactive
visual analytics solution for scrutinizing individual entities via four
distinct views: the Ego Net view, the Hierarchical Tree view, the
Unity Net view, and the Parallel Coordinates view. The system
incorporates an anomalous pattern detection mechanism, which is
designed to address the challenges detailed in the 2023 IEEE V AST
Challenge MC1. This integrated solution not only demonstrates
robustness and scalability but also provides a powerful tool for
comprehending large-scale knowledge graph datasets.
Index Terms: Visual analytics, knowledge graph, anomaly detec-
tion, illegal ﬁshing.
1I NTRODUCTION
The V AST Challenge 2023 Mini-Challenge 1 provides a knowl-
edge graph generated using Natural Language Processing (NLP)
*E-mail: wujingf25@163.com
† E-mail: lululudiyun@gmail.com
‡ E-mail: chenlei762475593@qq.com
§E-mail: pengningyi2001@gmail.com
¶E-mail: 12010715@mail.sustech.edu.cn
||E-mail: tangxinyu2002@gmail.com
**E-mail: mayx@sustech.edu.cn
tools extracting entities and relationships from text articles, which
is a directed multi-graph consisting of 3721 nodes and 7422 edges,
requiring the participants to ﬁgure out entities involved in Unfortu-
nately, illegal, unreported, and unregulated ﬁshing (IUU) and extract
their patterns.
We addressed the problem using graph embedding techniques,
supply chain cycle detection, and interactive statistical visualizations.
Our system, FishHook, consists of four views: 1) the Ego Net view
which enables exploration around speciﬁc entities with conclusive
information cards added, 2) the Unity Net view that merges linked
homogeneous entities into unities, 3) the Hierarchy Tree view which
presents the overarching ownership streams, and 4) the Parallel
Coordinates view comparing behavioral patterns between entities.
2V ISUAL ANAL YTICS SYSTEM
2.1 Ego Net
The Ego Net view plays a central role in our system, which begins
from an ego node and extends to two tiers of neighboring nodes,
where colors represent relationships and icons denote node types. As
shown in Figure 1 (A), it consists of four coordinated sub-modules:
ﬁlters for node and connection types (a1), history breadcrumbs for
ego-switching paths (a2), a statistical message card for speciﬁc
node data (a3), and a global anomaly list for sorting node based on
suspicion levels (a4).
Filter Module (a1). Directly searching and submitting any targeted
node’s ID switches the center of the Ego Net view. Nodes’ types
and countries as well as edges’ types together with in and out degree
ﬁltering are enabled.
1
2023 VAST Challenge
979-8-3503-0866-2/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/VASTChallenge60523.2023.00006
2023 VAST Challenge | 979-8-3503-0866-2/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/VASTCHALLENGE60523.2023.00006
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIJING INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on June 15,2026 at 08:20:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
History Breadcrumbs (a2). Double-click a node switches the
view to the center of the Ego Net and immediately update the node
ID here for future stepping back.
Message Card (a3). Single-clicking on any node highlights it
in yellow, and the message card will be updated, whose content is
illustrated below:
• ID Panel: This panel shows connected vessels, neighboring nodes
with the largest edge count, and the distance to the anomalies
identiﬁed by the LINE algorithm in the feature space [2].
• Statistics Panel: Numerical information about the neighbors and
edges are displayed in this panel, which corresponds to the content
of the Parallel Coordinate view (D).
• Cycles Panel: Regarding the anomaly cycle of supply chains as
potential IUU behaviors, this panel displays the number of cycles
passing through both the selected node and the anomalies with
the length between 2 and 6. Checking the box in the panel will
highlight the related cycles in the Ego Net.
Anomaly List (a4). This is a global list showing nodes with high
anomaly scores under the mathematical model to be introduced in
Section 3.
Figure 2: The triggered anomaly list.
When switching to the “Show in Net” mode, Figure 2, nodes in
the list will be marked in the red color. Anomaly scores of the nodes
are linearly mapped to the lightness of the red colors. The list also
allows adding new nodes by right-clicking on an individual node in
the node-link diagram and removal by clicking the delete button.
2.2 Unity Net
The Unity Net view represents merged connections among entities
of the same type across different families, ownership-related com-
panies, ownership-related political organizations, and various other
entities, Figure 1 (B). It assists users in comprehending relationships
and structures by showcasing robust connections between nodes,
while also providing the option to delve deeper into ego networks
for more information through a double-click interaction.
2.3 Hierarchy Tree
The hierarchy Tree view, Figure 1 (C), is generated by traversing
directional ownerships. The goal of designing this view is to link
suspicious nodes through ownership, enabling the observation of
organizational business structure and the upstream and downstream
of the supply chain.
2.4 Parallel Coordinate
In the Parallel Coordinates view shown in Figure 1 (D), each edge
represents a feature vector of an entity’s statistical and structural
factors. Nodes of the same types are placed together for comparison,
where the selected node is colored blue and the suspected entities
red. A pair of green threshold lines representing the 3-sigma values
are also rendered for outlier identiﬁcation.
3A NOMAL Y PATTERNS
Based on previous observations and conclusions, we model an
anomaly score to measure entities’ anomaly degree as follows:
S = Rv − ˆRv + 0.1 × F12 + P12 − 0.5 × (dist(nnow ,979893388))
+ dist(nnow ,Ocean f ront) +C (1)
Rv = vwcc
nwcc
(2)
In the equations, V stands for vessels, n for nodes, dist for the Eu-
clidean distance function. In addition, Oceanfront is short for Ocean-
front Oasis Inc Carriers, and wcc for weakly connected component s.
The computation takes the following aspects into account [1]:
• The difference of vessels ratio in a wcc and its average value,
which indicates the role of the entity in the ﬁshery supply chain;
• Number of family relationships of the ﬁrst and second-order neigh-
bors, which represents the correlation between entity and family
forces;
• Number of political organizations in the ﬁrst and second-order
neighbors, which represents the correlation between the entity and
political organizations;
• Number of cycles going through current nodes and illegal nodes,
which represents the possibility of its involvement in the supply
chain of the suspected entity;
• The Euclidean distance between the current node and two ille-
gal nodes calculated by LINE and t-SNE algorithms [2], which
represents the similarity between the entity and illegal nodes.
According to the large sample theory, considering the number of
entities in this network, we may consider the distribution of anomaly
scores as a normal distribution. We normalize the scores using the
formula of (x − min)/max × 100, and the top-10 largest scores will
be displayed as the anomaly entity to make the threshold adaptive
to speciﬁc network. The coefﬁcient is speciﬁed as to unify the
methods we used to detect suspect entities. The weight of each
method mainly depends on its contribution of differentiating the
entities. Since we speciﬁed the coefﬁcient of each score-term to
unify their contribution to detect suspected entities, thus deleting
one score-term does not affect the overall performance of the scoring
mechanism.
4C ONCLUSION
FishHook contextualizes both structural and intrinsic information
of any speciﬁc nodes in knowledge graphs, which enables explo-
ration on statistical and behavioral patterns of the entities together
with anomaly detection. In the future, we will explore how can
FishHook be generalized to handle other knowledge-graph-based
analysis scenarios.
REFERENCES
[1] Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries. Illegal ﬁshing.
European Commision, 2010.
[2] J. Tang, M. Qu, M. Wang, M. Zhang, J. Yan, and Q. Mei. LINE: Large-
scale information network embedding. Proceedings of the International
Conference on World Wide Web, 24:1067–1077, 2015.
2
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIJING INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on June 15,2026 at 08:20:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 